# Call-in-Tracker
Click "Call-in Tracker v2.ipynb" to view my Python code

Click "Call-ins.pdf" to view the final chart

PROJECT EXPLANATION
I initially created the 'Mold Call Log' Excel spreadsheet to keep track of clients who were calling in to have our company come out and assess their home or business for mold/water damage. After seeing the potential to use it for predicting our busiest times of year for call-ins, I created a "Stats" page that automatically outputted a bar chart of how many calls we received per month. Using the data from 2021, we dedicated more resources to this branch of our business during those peak months to serve more clients. This resulted in a 12% increase in clients served from 2021 to 2022. Note: The 'Mold Call Log' was edited to remove identifiable information, which broke parts of the "Stats" page. The original chart works as intended. I then imported the data into Python to clean and fill in missing data using the Pandas library and visualize using the Matplotlib library.

A different, interactive version is available on my Tableau profile: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/ng1808/viz/Call-ins/Dashboard1

The first chart categorizes calls based on whether an appointment was scheduled with the client, we returned their call but they did not answer or call us back, they cancelled an appointment and never rescheduled, or we simply did not call them. Using the information gained about our busiest time of year, we successfully scheduled more appointments during this time. We only fell short of 2021 in June, which in 2022 was one of two busiest times of year for another branch of our business (AHERA school inspections).

The second chart visualizes the percentage of calls that we successfully scheduled appointments for. This again highlights how our AHERA school inspections "ran the show" in June. We can also easily see how we were more prepared in the last quarter of the year. The only issue with this chart is Dec 2021 is an outlier in that we only received 1 call and it went unscheduled, bring the percentage for that month to 0%.

The final chart is similar to the first chart but displays the information in a way that visualizes the minimum revenue we earned from our appointments vs. the minimum revenue possible if all calls were scheduled for an appointment. The minimum charge for our services is $525.00. Based on information presented, we are missing out on between 25% - 50% of what we could be earning. Obviously we can't convince everyone to set up an appointment with us, and our services weren't always necessary based on the issues some some clients had. However, there are some ways to increase how many appointments we schedule. The first being to connect the caller to one of our inspectors as soon as they call in. Our secretary always tells callers that there is no one in the office to speak to them at the moment (regardless if that is true or not) and that someone will call them back. This gives the caller the opportunity to call other places and set up appointments with a competitor. On the otherhand, when inspectors answer the phone when a caller calls in, an appointment is almost always scheduled then and there. Therefore, connecting a caller immediately with an inspector is key in "catching" that client. Another option is to hire/delegate someone to schedule appointments and train them to be able to answer questions. This way, even if there are no inspectors in the office, the caller can still be "caught". Finally, inspectors of other disciplines could be trained to conduct mold inspections as there is minimal training required.
